Simple quiz app for maritime exams in Hungary required for the pleasure craft / motorboat driving license (Kedvtelési célú kisgéphajó vezetői engedély, tengeri IV. osztályú kiegészítéssel).

This app is not affiliated with the Hungarian Transport Authority (Közlekedési Alkalmassági Vizsgaközpont) or any other official body. It is a personal project to help with exam preparation.

The questions are based on the official exam questions available at [vizsgakozpont.hu](https://vizsgakozpont.hu/hajozas/hajos-kepesitesek) at the time of creating this application: July 2025.

## Features

- Multiple choice questions with one correct answer
- Randomized question order
- Progress tracking
- Responsive design for mobile and desktop

## Technologies Used

- Python for parsing the question files
- React for UI
- JavaScript for the frontend logic
- HTML/CSS for the layout and styling

## How to Run locally

### Parsers (Python)

Parsers are used to generate the JSON files from the question XLSX files of the official exam questions. The parsers are written in Python and require Python 3.x to run.

To run the parsers, follow these steps:

1. Install Python 3.x (developed using version 3.13.3)
2. Install the required packages:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```
3. Navigate to the `parser` directory:
   ```bash
   cd parser
   ```
4. Run the parser script to generate the question files:
   ```bash
   python parse_<question_type>.py
   ```

The downloaded question packages contain multiple image files that are referenced in the questions. These images should be placed in the `public/images/<question_type>` directory, where `<question_type>` corresponds to the type of questions (e.g., `hsz`, `hi`, etc.).

Using the parsers and the `rename_images.py` script, you can rename the images to make sure the filnenames and casing are valid and match the references in the questions.

### Frontend (React)

The frontend is a very simple React application written in Javascript and built by Vite that displays the questions and allows users to answer them. It uses the JSON files generated by the parsers.

To run the frontend application, follow these steps:

1. Install Node.js v22+ (developed using version 24.3.0)
2. Install the required packages:
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```
3. Start the development server:
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```
4. Open your browser and navigate to `http://localhost:5678` to view the application.
